p. 1: Just compilers are programs that translates from a program in source language into a program in target language.
p. 2: An interesting thing is the description of a interpreter that the author gives, basically he defines an
interpreter as a program that instear of getting a source program and producing a target program, which
can be executed(producing outputs) in case of the target language being a machine language.
The interpreter get the source program and an input and produces an output. directly.
The author states that interpreters are much slower than compilers, i don't 
know exactly why, but i know that from my experience, like python is much slower than C or golang.
Apparently java is both, its compiled into byte code and then interpreted by JVM
the advantage is being platform independent. Java is hybrid
p. 3: It talks about compiler having other parts beyond just get the source language
and convert to target, it opens the black box to just say that we have other steps
and components, like the preprocessor, compiler, assembler, linker and loader,
an interesting thing is the name relocatable machine code that the assembler produces
'relocatable' here means that its not tied to any specific memory address
like the instruction don't have an specific address is relative, and you 
can link with other relocatable object files to make the final file.
what i understood is
preprocessor - expand macros and modify your source code
compiler the this code and produces an assembly language code
assembler - Gets the assembler and produces the "relocatable machine code"
linker - Solve references from one file to another like when referencing libraries
loader - puts everyfile together
im not sure if linker produces new files or it just modify the ones
p. 4: 
It make some logical division between the compilation process, like
analysis and synthesis, it can be called frontend and backend.
aparently analysis part get the code and checks for grammar rules and builds some intermediate representation, it also makes some kind of symbol table. it describes that compiler works as a sequence of phases, and in each one transforming one representation into another.
p. 5:
the symbol table stores some information of the source program. there are machine-independent optimization which transforms the intermediate representation into a optimized one.
The phases character stream (Lexical Analyzer) token stream (Syntax Analyser) syntax tree (Semantic Analyzer) syntax tree (IR Generator) IR (Machine Independent code optimizer) IR (Code generator) target machine code (Machine Dependent Code Optimizer) target machine code
p. 6:
The Lexical analyzer basically builds a sequence of lexemes, that for is just a mapping to the symbol table. What it does is basically tuples (name, attributes) where the name of the abstract symbol, and the value is the an entry in the symbol table, when it has some. for the operations the attribute is empty, so we have a stream of these things. for literal values have a different thing too
p. 8: Discuss a little bit about the syntax analyzer. This phase basically lexemes built in the last phase, and builds a syntax tree, where each node is an operation and the children are the arguments of the operation. its just create a tree-like representation. Besides, it also discuss about semantic analyzes, the is the next phase, it gets the tree and chech for consistency with the language. He talks about type checking, like if the operands of some operator matchs with the operation. It also talks about coersions that is when some operand dont match with the other operand for the operation, but the language apply some conversion automatically.
p. 9: it talks about intermediate representation, that the compiler generate after those 3 parts, essentially there are many different types of intermediate representations, the principle to design it is be "easy" to produce and easy to translate to machine code. one of intermediate representation is the three-address code representation which is a sequence of assembly-like instruction like t1 = id3 * t1... 
p. 10: 

